---
title: Origin Story
date: 2022-07-11 16:32:00 -04:00
published: false
---

The Seattle mist slowly rolled in through the Puget Sound carrying a strong scent of fish and stale coffee as The Chief peered over the bow of SS Shirley. Binoculars in hand, she spotted excitedly looked on ahead towards the quickly approaching San Juan Islands. After numerous years of research, she knew that this trip out to the islands would be the closest she had ever been to real-life experience based on her research. 
Being a researcher is lonely work mostly spent staring at a data on a screen. This moment in the fresh, wet, Seattle winter air, The Chief felt so alive and full of excitement. Her research on the ancient sea people led her to this corner of the world after a spike in sonar activity was confirmed by a colleague in an outpost on Lopez Island. The radar that her fellow researchers hosted had been studying a series of repeating frequencies that were not quite like the usual species' found in this area.
Initially the scientists at the Lopez Island base assumed the frequencies were coming from the migrating blue whales that have been known to migrate to the Pacific off the coast of Washington towards feeding grounds in the area and then north towards Alaska. But no, these sonar readings were low and guttural like a large whale species but followed a unique cadence that sounded almost like a human speech pattern but slowed down to almost snail-like pace. Our team got wind of this unique discovery and spent over a year studying the recordings, picking them apart, piece by piece. After almost two years of research, we were able to decipher a unique and highly intelligent exchange between two beings originating in the Straight of Juan de Fuca at 100 meters. As the readings were confirmed to be of intelligent origin by 3 of my colleagues, I bought a ticket to Seattle right away to investigate for myself. 
As our ship pulled into port, the waves crashed up against our ship's hull. The large wooden posts, covered with old tires that were tacked on with rusty nails. The ship rolled in and my hosts on the SS Shirley gestured me over to the tiny row boat being loaded up with our gear. 
As our tiny boat made it's way to the shore, I couldn't help but think about the haunting recordings from the waters below me. What lies beneath these choppy grey waters? What secrets have we yet to uncover? 
A white euro sprinter was parked up on the ramp, with a very wired woman in overalls and Teva sandals (with socks), waved as I pulled myself out of the boat. 
"Chief! You made it." A smile so large that I could see the mullers at the back of her mouth. 
"Jenny, it's been too long!" we embraced and immediately picked right back up from our recent zoom meeting discussing the plan for the weekend. 
"You've got the underwater camera's secured?" I started going down the list of items needed for our expedition. 
"Yup!" Jenny checked each item on her ipad as I loaded my bags in the Sprinter.
After 20 minutes of winding uphill towards the top of the island, I spotted the observatory. A plain building- white cement structured in Brutalist Architecture. A dome on the south side of the building with steel panels that looked like it houses a very large telescope, and a black steel deck that wrapped around the western side of the building that were built in front of a series of glass windows and sliding doors. 
I was greeted by Dr. Scallop, a large man with black rimmed glasses and a surprisingly large boisterous voice. "You made it!" he exclaimed with an out-stretched hand. We shook hands and exchanged pleasantries, and I was swiftly led inside where there were 5 scientists in lab coats wearing headphones and watching the sonar readings' green glare bounce in arches across their equipment's screen. One of the women in the group was adjusting a piece of equipment in her hands that rested on her lap, with what appeared to be a under water face mask with attached snorkel. As I approached their lab, the singularly focused team barely looked up from their work to acknowledge my presence in the room. 
"Alright team take a break, The Chief is here", Dr. Scallop's voice echoed throughout the lab. Their team jumped to attention. The woman startled and dropped the snorkel mask as she jolted up out of her chair. One of the scientists that still had his headphones on didn't budge an inch and continued to sit staring at the radar readings as they bounced around the screen. 
"Hi all, lovely to meet you finally!", there was a strange awkwardness in their mannerisms. They grumbled responses and then shuffled back to what they were doing. Meanwhile, the scientist who seemed transfixed by the sonar radar remained staring at the screen, an eerie green glow encapsulating him. 
"Oh don't mind them," Dr. Scallop said as he motioned for me to follow him down the hall. "They've been working long hours since the discovery of the anomaly. Our team has been devoted to this development since our discovery last week. I try to get them to slow down and take breaks, but you know they're young and relentlessly devoted!" he flipped his hand in the air. 
I couldn't seem to push away a feeling that was tugging at me - there seemed to be more going on here. There was something so strange about this research team. Was it the isolation on this island? Or maybe something else?
"We leave in 1 hour!" Dr. Scallop almost clicked his heels in excitement on his way out of the room as he handed me the keys. 
An hour later I found my way back to the sprinter van after I'd had the chance to fully prepare with my excavation gear.  

